---
title: "README"
author: "Frank Przybilla"
date: "25. Dezember 2015"
output: html_document
---

The R script transform.R carries out all the necessary steps to link 
the provided metadata with the measured data values and to merge 
the training and test data to one meaningful data set.


The script reads the following text files into individual data frames
with the fread function:

**Metadata**

- features.txt
- activity_labels.txt

**Data values**

*Test data*


- X_test.txt
- subject_test.txt
- Y_test.txt

*Training data*:


- X_test.txt
- subject_test.txt
- Y_test.txt

The data from feature.txt is used to generate new meaningful column names for the data values. The data from subject_test.txt,subject_train.txt and Y_test.txt, Y_train.txt
is merged with the data values from the test and training data. THe result is two new
traing and test data set.
These two traing and test data sets are then merged together to get the the final result set.
Mainly functions from the follwing R libraries are used to simplify these transformations:

- plyr
- dplyr

The select function is used to filter the desired columns which contain "md" or
"std" in there column names.
The function mapvalues is used to substitude the activity codes with meaningful
descriptions from the file activity_labels.txt.
The new tidy data set is generated by using the group_by function und applying the summarize_each function on all column values of the generated groups.

In the final step the result data set is written out to a file using the function write.table.





